---
layout: page
title: Readme files
parent: Data Management
nav_order: 4
---

The readme files contains information about the experiment. Start by finding a template on `General/Data Management/READ.me files`, and edit the different sections to describe your data in a way that others can reuse your data.

# About Dataset

One Paragraph about data description goes here. You can also state why this data was collected.

Raw/Processed data can be found in project/users/userX/folder/subfolder

## About Data collection methodology

This description gives a detailed process on how the data was collected. It should describe the conditions under which the data was recorded and also the devices used to record the data.

### Description of the data

Here you can descibe how the data is organized in this whole dataset. How the data is stored in all the files. You also have to brief about the naming convention of the files in different directories.

### And file formats

If the data includes images or audio, you can mention the file format eg.(.svg, .png, .mpeg).
```
-500 images, format svg.
```

### Date when data was collected

YYYY-MM-DD

or 

YYYY-MM-DD to YYYY-MM-DD

## Online Repository link

* [DataRepository](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets) - Link to the data repository.

## Authors

* **Author:** insert name here
* **Intitution:** insert institution name here
* **PI:** insert principal responsible for the project name here 


## License

Insert license

## Acknowledgments

Insert acknowledgement

<span class="fs-3">
[🡸 Name convention](/documentation/dm/d3.html){: .btn }
</span>
<span class="fs-3" style="float: right;">
[FAQ 🡺](/documentation/dm/d5.html){: .btn }
</span>