---
layout: page
title: Data Management
permalink: /dm/dm
nav_order: 1
---

# Guide for data management of MMD

## 0. Before starting - some important points of data management plan

1. Plan how to manage data
2. Recognize possible ethics and legal issues
3. Organize and document (always describe your data)
4. Store and share
5. Publish
6. Report data to ACRIS
7. Archive

## 1. Starting points

1. When users integrate a project, they should be added to the Teams folder. If someone works in multiple projects at the same time, then multiple separate folders should be created on each project
2. Install Teams
3. Log in with Aalto account
4. Go to `Teams` > `MMD` > `Project` > `Files` > **Click on Sync** 
(*if some permissions are asked, confirm that it is ok*)

	-- OPTIONAL --

5. Install a markdown editor
6. Install PowerToys (Windows users only) for preview md files on windows side pane

## 2. Folder tree

Project/
├─ Ethics/
├─ Management/
│  ├─ Finances/
│  ├─ Proposals/
│  ├─ Reports/
├─ Outputs/
│  ├─ Conferences/
│  ├─ Guides/
│  ├─ Outreach/
│  ├─ Publications/
│  ├─ Teaching/
│  ├─ Thesis/
│  ├─ Webpage materials/
├─ Raw Data/
│  ├─ Multimedia/
│  ├─ Numeric/
│  ├─ Text/
├─ User/
│  ├─ User A/
│  ├─ User B/
│  ├─ User .../

- Ethics and Management is for project management only
- Upload all unprocessed data in `Raw Data` folders and create a README.md file for each experiment
	- Text data include databases, survey (txt, doc, ...)
	- Numeric data include all numerical measurements (csv, spss, xls)
	- Multimedia data include images, videos and audio (raw, avi, jpg, png,...)
	- Other specific data (add this in case of need)
	- Processed data should be placed in users folders; remember to include the folder locations in both readme (raw should point to the processed and processed to raw)
	- Subfolders should have YYYMMDD-Tag format
- Users folder should include all processed data; no specific folder organization is imposed at this level but keep it user-friendly
- Outputs should include final documents and useful data (documents can be still updated if required)
- **README** and other guides can be found on `Guides for DM`. Create your template if you find it useful for a specific technique.
For instance, a README template for the microscope can have already some pre-filled fields and description that is duplicated from experiment to experiment and specific info that should always be mentioned, like magnification or scale bar info.

Check `markdown-cheat-sheet.md` for the syntax (basic elements like heading, bold, italic, etc.)  

## 3. Name convention

Use different tags to describe files content when you name files; if name is automatically generated by some software, do not forget to clearly describe data in the readme.

Possible tags to name files:

- Date YYYYMMDD
- Experiment name
- Method
- Project ID
- Version
- Subset
- Source ID
- ...

## 4. FAQ

#### How to make OneDrive files locally available?

1. Open File Explorer.
2. Navigate to the file or folder in question.
3. Right-click on the file/folder.
4. Click on **Always keep on this device**.

#### How to delete OneDrive files without removing them online?

1. Open File Explorer.
2. Navigate to the file or folder in question.
3. Right-click on the file/folder.
4. Click on **Free up space**.
